Facebook Lead Ads via Zapier documentation (#6525)
braze-inc/braze-docs: _docs/_partners/data_and_infrastructure_agility/leads_capture/facebook_via_zapier.md

---
nav_title: Facebook Lead Ads via Zapier
article_title: Facebook Lead Ads via Zapier
description: "This reference article outlines the integration between Braze and Facebook Lead Ads via Zapier to automate the transfer of lead data from Facebook to Braze, enabling real-time engagement and personalized follow-up actions."
alias: /partners/facebook_via_zapier/
page_type: partner
search_tag: Partner

---

# Facebook Lead Ads via Zapier integration

> > With the Facebook Lead Ads integration via [Zapier][1], you can import your leads from Facebook into Braze along with tracking a custom event when leads are captured. Facebook Lead Ads is a type of ad format that allows businesses to collect lead information directly in Facebook. These ads are designed to make the lead generation process easy and seamless.

Reviewer: Suggestion for flow: 

```suggestion
> With the Facebook Lead Ads integration via [Zapier][1], you can import your leads from Facebook into Braze and track a custom event when leads are captured. Facebook Lead Ads is an ad format that allows businesses to collect lead information directly in Facebook. These ads are designed to make the lead generation process easy and seamless.
```

By leveraging this integration and Braze, you can automate the transfer of lead data from Facebook to Braze, enabling real-time engagement and personalized follow-up actions. 

## Prerequisites

| Requirements | Description |
|---|---|
| Zapier account | A Zapier account is required to take advantage of this partnership. This integration requires use of [premium Zapier apps](https://zapier.com/app/pricing), so check that your Zapier plan has access to premium apps. |

> | [Facebook Business Manager](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/1710077379203657?id=180505742745347) | A centralized tool to manage your brand’s Facebook assets (for example, ad accounts, pages, apps). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Facebook Business Manager](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/1710077379203657?id=180505742745347) | You will use Facebook Business Manager, a centralized tool to manage your brand’s Facebook assets (for example, ad accounts, pages, and apps), as part of this integration. |
```

Reviewer: Some of the descriptions were full sentences and some were fragments. I tried to standardize. Please finesse for flow if you have insights on how to improve this.

> | [Facebook ad account](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/195296697183682?id=829106167281625) | An active Facebook ad account tied to your brand’s business manager. <br><br>Ensure that you have the "Manage ad accounts" permission for each ad account you plan to use with Braze, and that you have accepted your ad account terms and conditions. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Facebook ad account](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/195296697183682?id=829106167281625) | You will need an active Facebook ad account tied to your brand’s business manager. <br><br>Ensure that you have the "Manage ad accounts" permission for each ad account you plan to use with Braze, and that you have accepted your ad account terms and conditions. |
```

> | [Facebook Page](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/183277585892925?id=420299598837059) | An active Facebook Page tied to your brand’s business manager and with "Manage Pages" permissions for each Facebook Page you plan to use with Braze. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Facebook Page](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/183277585892925?id=420299598837059) | You will need an active Facebook Page tied to your brand’s business manager. <br><br>Ensure that you have the "Manage Pages" permissions for each Facebook Page you plan to use with Braze. |
```

> | [Facebook Leads access](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/540596413257598?id=735435806665862) | Facebook Leads access for each ad account you plan to use with Braze. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| [Facebook Leads access](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/540596413257598?id=735435806665862) | Facebook Leads access for each ad account you plan to use with Braze is required to use this integration. |
```

| Braze REST endpoint | [Your REST endpoint URL][0]. Your API endpoint matches the dashboard URL for your Braze instance. <br><br> For example, if your dashboard URL is `https://dashboard-03.braze.com`, your endpoint will be `dashboard-03`. |
| Braze REST API key | A Braze REST API key with `users.track` permissions. <br><br> This can be created in the Braze dashboard from **Settings** > **API Keys**. |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2}

## Integration

### Step 1: Create a Lead Ads campaign with an instant form

> From Facebook Ads Manager, create a [Facebook Leads campaign and Facebook Lead Ads form](https://www.facebook.com/business/help/397336587121938?id=735435806665862&helpref=uf_permalink).

Reviewer: General comment: Can we please make links to non-Braze pages open in new windows as a best practice?

Reviewer: For clarity: I'm not asking that we go wide with this right now, just for this article, can we use target="_blank" or something?

> Include email or phone as a field in your form. You can use an email address or phone number when making a request to the `/users/track` endpoint to update or create the user profile. If you're collecting first names or last names, collect those separately in your form instead of using full names.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use either an email address or phone number when making a request to the [`/users/track` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_track/) to update or create the user profile. For this reason, include a **Contact field** of **email** or **phone** in your lead ad form. If you're collecting first names or last names, collect those separately in your form instead of using full names.
```

### Step 2: Connect your Facebook Account to Zapier 

> In Zapier, go to **Apps** to search for available Facebook apps select either **Facebook Lead Ads** or **Facebook Lead Ads (for Business admins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Zapier, go to **Apps** to search for available Facebook apps. Select either **Facebook Lead Ads** or **Facebook Lead Ads (for Business admins).
```

> In Zapier, go to **Apps** to search for available Facebook apps select either **Facebook Lead Ads** or **Facebook Lead Ads (for Business admins).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Zapier, go to **Apps** to search for available Facebook apps select either **Facebook Lead Ads** or **Facebook Lead Ads (for Business admins)**.
```

Note that Zapier has two methods of connecting your Facebook account to Zapier. For more information, refer to:

- [Facebook Lead Ads (for Business Admins)](https://help.zapier.com/hc/en-us/articles/8496123584781-How-to-get-started-with-Facebook-Lead-Ads-for-Business-Admins-on-Zapier#h_01HC9VZFZG0GR2KRYM5EQJN329)
- [Facebook Lead Ads](https://help.zapier.com/hc/en-us/articles/8496061306253#h_01HC9VMZ2XP0017AR6SE7S30JG)

![][2]{: style="max-width:80%;"}

> Next, assign Zapier to Leads Access within your Business Manager. In your Business Manager, go to **Integrations** > **Leads Access** on the left-hand menu. Select your Facebook Page, then click **CRMs**. From here, select **Assign CRMs** and add **Zapier**.

Reviewer: Should this be a separate step (Step 3) instead of a subtask of Step 2?

* If no profile exists with the provided email, Braze will create a new profile and a new alias user profile will be created. To identify the newly created alias user profiles, use the [`/users/identify` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_identify/).

{% alert note %}
You can also use an external ID or phone number as part of the request to Braze if those fields are available and the primary identifier you wish to for the integration. To do this, modify your request payload as indicated in the [`/users/track` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_track/).
{% endalert %}

## Troubleshooting

{% details I tested the Trigger and Action successfully, so why am I unable to publish my Zapier Zap? %}
To use this integration, you must have a [Zapier plan](https://zapier.com/app/pricing) that supports premium apps. 
{% enddetails %}

{% details Why aren’t Facebook leads syncing to Braze? %}
1. Check that you have administrator access to your Facebook Page, ad account, and lead access. Then, reconnect your account in Zapier.
2. Verify that the instant form you created in Facebook maps to the form selected in your Trigger step. 

> 3. Check that you have assigned Zapier to Leads Access* by going to **Facebook Business Manager** > **Integrations** > **Lead Access**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Check that you have assigned Zapier to Leads Access by going to **Facebook Business Manager** > **Integrations** > **Lead Access**.
```

| Braze REST endpoint | Ensure you know your [REST endpoint URL][1]. Your API endpoint matches the dashboard URL for your Braze instance. <br><br> For example, if your dashboard URL is `https://dashboard-03.braze.com`, your endpoint will be `dashboard-03`. |
| Braze REST API key | Ensure you have a Braze REST API key with `users.track` permissions. <br><br> This can be created in the Braze dashboard from **Settings** > **API Keys**. |
{: .reset-td-br-1 .reset-td-br-2}

## Integration

### Step 1: Create a Lead Ads campaign with an instant form

From Facebook Ads Manager, create a <a href="https://www.facebook.com/business/help/397336587121938?id=735435806665862&helpref=uf_permalink" target="_blank">Facebook Leads campaign and Facebook Lead Ads form</a>.

You can use either an email address or phone number when making a request to the [`/users/track` endpoint]({{site.baseurl}}/api/endpoints/user_data/post_user_track/) to update or create the user profile. For this reason, include a **Contact field** for **email** or **phone** in your lead ad form. If you're collecting first names or last names, collect those separately in your form instead of using full names.

> ### Step 2: Connect your Facebook Account to Zapier 

Author: ```suggestion
### Step 2: Connect your Facebook account to Zapier 
```
